We're just gonna go through a bunch of the
features in the Docker CLI, so that we can
just kind of type out and see all
the various things that it can do for you.
It's a Swiss army knife,
it does many things for you.
So I just want you to be familiar
with some of the other features, so
that when you go to use them,
that you can have them here.
So let's come back here to my container,
or to my terminal, rather.
First thing I'm gonna say is docker pull,
and I'm gonna do jturpin/hollywood.
So you can see there, by default,
it was already using latest, right,
because I didn't specify a version,
but it tells you that.
And I already had this downloaded.
So it's just going to say already exists,
already exists, already exists.
And so that will actually go and
fetch it from the registry,
so it's locally cached on my computer.
So later when I go to use it,
it's already there.
Right?
I had many of you do this before
the class started, just so
that you would have these all ready to go.
And now that it's already here,
I could say docker run -it jturpin,
and actually I'm gonna do this to
with a different container just so,
or a different terminal real quick.
This is small text, but you don't
have to really care what it's saying.
docker run-it, jturpin/hollywood, and
then I'm gonna put hollywood again.
So, what this is doing,
this is hilarious to me.
[LAUGH] It's not doing anything.
>> [LAUGH]
>> But,
it's supposed to look like
a Hollywood hacker's console.
Right?
So, one of the people that wrote this
said that she'll get on an airplane and
just run this,
just to see who looks nervous around her.
>> [LAUGH]
>> And
she'll just pound the keyboard like this.
So yeah,
that's exactly what this container is.
I think it uses tmux, right.
You can see here,
it's like doing the matrix on the top.
And then it'll just re-split
how everything is set up.
That one doing SSH keys.
That's funny.
So, it's like a trick, right?
But this is a fun party trick.
This does absolutely nothing.
But it looks really scary, right?
You can see some of these don't even work.
But does that make sense for
like pull right where it pulls
something down off the registry?
And as you might imagine,
I could go to dockerhub.com or
hub.docker.com/jturpin/hollywood, and
I would see that particular
entry in the docker hub, right.
Do all those dots connect with how I.
>> It's like a VM install, basically.
>> It's like NPM, cache, basically, cuz
you're not actually running it yet, but
you're pulling it in.
Yeah.
Okay.
Let's stop that, cuz that's ridiculous.
Stop it, stop it.
Thank you.
Okay, now we'll go back to the other one.
So, let's do docker inspect now.
So, I'm gonna say docker inspect.
And let's do node 12-stretch.
So, you can see here, it just outputs
a lot of information about that.
It'll give you the hash,
it'll give you the tags.
It will give you a bunch of information,
here it will give you
environmental variables.
Like you can see here, this came with
Node, I didn't know this came with Yarn,
but you can see there that
it came with a Yarn version.
It'll tell you what command
it is going to run.
So it actually runs node like
that whenever you run it.
Entry Point.
See, it just gives you
a bunch of stuff like that.
So this is useful if you're like trying to
figure out what's wrong with this version
or like how was it built or
something like that.
Bunch of stuff like that.
Next one we'll learn is docker pause.
So I'm going to do Docker run -dit.
So the dash d is detached,
which we saw previously.
I'm gonna do the jturpin
hollywood one again.
Hollywood, but then now this is
gonna run in the background, right,
which is, I mean, it's doing something,
but we're not watching it, right?
But you can see here it's still running.
That we can see that's still running,
but this one here's running.
And this is hard to read like this.
So just for a second, I'm just zooming
out so you can see all these on one line.
You can see the status here,
it's been up for about seven seconds.
So again, it's been up for seven seconds.
So now I can say docker pause, and
I'll just take that container ID and
paste it right there.
And now if I say docker ps again,
it's gonna say it's paused right there,
right?
Whatever it was doing, it just
froze all of its process trees, and
it's just stopping dead in its tracks.
And now if I say docker unpause,
as you might imagine,
say docker ps, it's back to execute.
So, another thing, if you want to
pause something that's happening,
you can just say docker pause,
and that works.
And then at the end of it, when I want
to get rid of it, docker kill, and
it is gone.
Let's go ahead and kill that other one,
cuz I don't know why it's running.
>> Is there a command to
kill all of them at once?
Cuz I have a lot of them running,
unbeknownst to me.
>> docker kill
>> It doesn't work, I tried.
>> No, you have to do docker ps -q.
So I think if you do, so
this subshells out to another shell,
right, if I put it inside of
the dollar sign parentheses here.
And then docker ps- q, I think -q, you
might need to check me on that one, and
let's just do it again.
Hold on.
We'll run this a couple of times.
The answer is,
there's no easy way to do it.
But I think you can do docker kill and
then docker ps -q.
And you can see there
it killed all of them.
So docker ps -q just outputs the IDs or
the container IDs, right?
And then that's fed into
the docker kill command.
Okay, another good one.
So here's the big key
that I need you to keep.
When I saw docker run and docker exec,
it took me a second to figure out,
why do I need both of these commands,
right?
Docker run is going to
start a new container.
Docker exec is going to run something
on an existing container, right?
That make sense?
So when I say, docker run like this,
it's going to start up a new
hollywood container, right?
But if I say docker exec,
it's going to try and
find a container to execute
against something, right?
So this one,
I ran another docker container.
So if I say docker ps, you can see here
I have this hollywood one running,
it's called fervent_kalam.
And I'm going to say docker
exec against fervent_kalam, or
I can put the ID there,
both of those will work.
And I just wanna see
what's running on that.
So I can say ps aux.
And you can see there,
it's running a bunch of stuff, right,
because it has all the various different
hollywood containers going on.
We can also say ls, right?
You can see that's in the root directory,
pwd, it will give me a slash, right?
So this is running against that
ongoing executing container.
Does that makes sense?
So if I wanted to connect to it,
I could just say bash.
I have to say -it, I think.
And now, I'm actually attached to
the same running container, right?
So, again, if I say ps aux,
you can see all the stuff that's
running against this container.
Make sense?
Docker kill, that one that we just did.
Here we go.
All right, so
we're gonna do another one here.
This is what we're gonna do,
docker history.
And I'm gonna say docker history, and
we're gonna say node
colon 12 dash stretch.
And here, we can see all of
the various different, and
we'll get into docker files
here in just a second.
But we can see all the changes
in the history here.
You can see,
this was last modified two weeks ago.
And you can see all the different sizes
and comments and created by, and images,
and all that kind of stuff.
This is kind of interesting
just to introspect how the,
your docker container
is changing over time.
Docker info, this is useful like if you're
like SSHed into like a VM that's
out running in the cloud.
This will just dump a bunch of information
about the host computer that it's
on, right?
So I can see that this
is on cgroupfs is what
it's using for control, cgroups.
I can see that I have 20 containers here,
all of them are stopped, right?
Which means that I have a bunch of
unnecessary information sitting on my
computer.
It's not in debug mode, I'm not running
swarm right now, bunch of stuff like that.
OS type Linux,
operating system is Docker Desktop.
And I'm using the community engine,
not the enterprise one, right?
So just a bunch of stuff like that,
can be occasionally be useful.
All right, so
let's do docker run -dit mongo,
this will start running
Mongo in the background.
And now I'm gonna say docker top that.
This is the same as doing
like exact px aux, right?
This is just an easy way to
see all the processes that
are going on in a particular container.
So that can be useful.
So this one is actually, you can see it's
running mongodb in the background, mongod.
And docker kill that.
Let's take a look at
docker ps dash dash all.
Now for me, you can see here,
that I have, I knew this,
I have 20 containers that
I've just kept around, right?
And you can see the status here for
all these is exited,
because I keep executing containers and
then not deleting them.
That's what that dash
dash rm is useful for.
That would save me a bunch of space,
but I keep forgetting about it.
But let's take a look at one of these,
right.
So You can see some of
these are from 10 days ago.
This one here that I just ran,
the mongo one.
Let's do docker logs from that.
You can see here,
this is a bunch of Mongo DB logs, right?
That should not be surprising to anyone,
right?
I ran Mongo DB,
it generated a bunch of logs.
So here they are.
So that's what docker allows you,
that can be ongoing.
It can be one that's still running, right?
It'll keep track of that information for
you.
Or you can do look at ones
that have recently shut down.
But let's say I want to get rid of that,
I can say docker rm that, and
it will actually go and delete that
container, it now freed up all that space.
And if I wanted to, let's say I am no
longer planning on using the Mongo
container anymore, I could say docker rmi,
which is, remove the image, right?
Mongo.
Now I am not going to do that,
because we are going to use it
here later in the course, but
that is how you would free up
some of that space as well.
And there is docker,
I think it's container prune.
This will remove all stopped containers,
I wanna do that.
And I say yes, and I reclaimed 422
bytes on my 256 gigabyte computer.
But now if I say docker ps --all,
nothing there.
Right?
So got rid of all that stuff.
Now again,
you can do docker image prune, right?
And that will free up
a substantial amount of stuff.
I don't suggest doing it right now.
>> You know where to see
like all the images?
>> I think a docker image list.
Lucky guess.
You can see I have quite a few.
Quite a few.
And you can see they're,
some of these are quite big.
So, yeah, I probably need to go free this
up, which I will do after the course.
All right, so docker run -dit,
do node:12-stretch.
So now I have docker ps that, right,
it's running in the background.
I have boring gagarin,
I can do a docker restart, that.
Unsurprisingly, this will
restart the container.
That's it.
In this particular case, so,
the reason why that probably took so
long, it might just take that long.
But a lot of times some of these
containers won't respond to restart
signals, right.
So that's how these things work.
It'll send like a terminate signal or
send a restart signal.
I think in this case, node doesn't respond
to restart signals in and of itself.
So what it does,
is that it waits ten seconds,
it's like okay, you're not restarting,
and it just hard restarts it for you.
So some of these will be a lot
faster because of the respond to
the restart signal.
But, Anyway, that's docker restart.
And then there's docker search.
Let's say we wanna search for
a Python container.
I can say, docker search python.
And you can see here,
it'll return off of docker hub.
Here's a bunch of Python containers
that you could be using.
It'll show you the stars,
the descriptions, all that kind of stuff.
And that's docker search, I would
probably just do it on docker hub myself,
but it is available in your command
line if you don't like browsers.
Probably the same people that are using
Mosaic for their day-to-day browsing.